Updates to project proposal process (#45)
hpsfoundation/tac: lifecycle_policy.md

To see past project proposals, you can look at the closed issues in this repository. See here:

* [Emerging Project Proposals](https://github.com/hpsfoundation/tac/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed%20label%3Alevel%3Aemerging)
* [Established Project Proposals](https://github.com/hpsfoundation/tac/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed%20label%3Alevel%3Aestablished)
* [Core Project Proposals](https://github.com/hpsfoundation/tac/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed%20label%3Alevel%3Acore)

### Project Acceptance Process
Once a project has submitted a proposal as outlined above, the process for accepting them
to HPSF is as follows:

1. TAC sponsors shall read through the project proposal and ensure that all criteria
   for the project's requested level are addressed in the proposal. If insufficient
   evidence is presented for any of the criteria, the sponsors should work with the
   project to bolster the case, or to choose a different, more appropriate initial
   level.

2. Once the proposal is in a suitable state, the sponsors shall propose it to the full

>    TAC for onboarding, and the TAC shall vote on whether to hear the project's presentation.

Reviewer: The TAC agreed with Justin suggestion.  He will suggest changes or push to the branch.

>    TAC for onboarding, and the TAC shall vote on whether to hear the project's presentation.

Reviewer 2: I pushed two commits:

```
9580535 2025-07-10 <justin.lapolla@hpe.com> Update paragraph numbering
c7d60e2 2025-07-10 <justin.lapolla@hpe.com> Do not conduct a poll to hear project presentations
```

3. If the TAC votes to take up the proposal, the TAC shall decide on a future meeting to
   hear the presentation.

4. TAC voting members shall read the project's proposal and ensure that they are familiar
   with the state of the project to be onboarded *before* the onboarding presentation.

5. Project members shall present their proposal at the scheduled TAC meeting. This should take
   no more than 30 minutes, and it will typically involve an introduction to the project and
   a verbal explanation of alignment with HPSF and key elements of the proposal.

>    See links in the prior section to past project propsoals for links to past talks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   See links in the prior section to past project proposals for links to past talks.
```

6. Once the project members have presented, voting members of the TAC shall convene a
   private session, and the project's sponsors shall discuss the project, its presentation,
   its proposal, and any questions the voting members have as to the evidence for

>    onboarding criteria.

Reviewer 4: I read it as immediately after the presentation.

>    In the closed sessio, sponsors are expected to advocate for the projects to be
>    onboarded and to clarify any questions the TAC may have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the closed session, sponsors are expected to advocate for the project and to clarify any questions the TAC may have.
```
Applying multiple suggestions editing the the same line is not supported so I consolidated https://github.com/hpsfoundation/tac/pull/45/files#r2114260919, https://github.com/hpsfoundation/tac/pull/45/files#r2135676375 and https://github.com/hpsfoundation/tac/pull/45/files#r2135676679

7. After the private session, the TAC shall vote asynchronously before the next TAC
   meeting on whehter or not to accept the project.

   **Projects must be accepted by a 2/3 majority of the TAC.*

   Generally, the TAC will vote on the proposed level and all lower levels
   simultaneously.

8. The TAC may decide to:
   1. Accept the project as proposed;
   2. Accept the project provisionally, pending chages;
   3. Accept the project at a lower level than proposed (given sufficient votes); or

>    4. Reject the project.

Author: I tried to make this clearer in the document. It just says that the vote will include the proposed level and lower levels as options. @jlapolla-cray does that look good to you?

>    4. Reject the project.

Author: Per our discussion at the TAC meeting ([recording and transcript here](https://zoom.us/rec/play/rpRMaS56hwGK_1A9jLSqI9gboRUcEaKM0FepV8ae9G9VpC54b_oGfeMltHaUZHb-gTEuRMlXylkhVRZq.hbOqT4OBav2MV-W6?eagerLoadZvaPages=sidemenu.billing.plan_management&accessLevel=meeting&canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMode=true&componentName=rec-play&originRequestUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Frec%2Fshare%2FNPx2XLIZ84S_UlsTh1KP_OqcZFnphujrXi8GasYnru43U-Xzx_hkxRRk88ns7OLV.9-llwNfKZYwJYUO3), we agreed to merge and improve on this later.

I nonetheless tried to clarify the reasons we might ask for additional minor requirements from projects here, listing ones we've seen in the past.  I don't think we can impose a great timeline as the LF membership can take quite a while (as @ax3l well knows 😬). I did add some text saying that following up is on the sponsors, and that we should have a check-in with them as an action item on the TAC agenda.

>    4. Reject the project.

Author: @ax3l and @jlapolla-cray : is this ok with you?

>    4. Reject the project.

Reviewer 2: The new wording is okay with me.
I still don't see how provisional approval is going to work from a voting standpoint.
I'm curious to see how we handle it if/when we have a project that is provisionally approved.
But, I'm not going to hold up the merge because of this.

>    4. Reject the project.

Reviewer 2: Aside: It would be awesome if we put a poll template directly in this document.
That would remove the potential for misinterpretation.
But that can come in a separate pull request.

>    4. Reject the project.

Author: @jlapolla-cray I updated the wording, gave all the steps in the process names, and added a ballot template. Any additional requests?

> Vote majorities will be calculated as a percentage of the votes received. If a project

Reviewer 5: The minimum number of votes is just the required percentage multiplied by quorum IIRC

> Vote majorities will be calculated as a percentage of the votes received. If a project

Reviewer 5: I disagree -- this proposal effectively makes not voting into a vote against, where I think not voting should count like an abstention (but an abstention counts towards quorum and a non-vote does not -- we could fail to achieve quorum on a virtual vote as well).

> Vote majorities will be calculated as a percentage of the votes received. If a project

Reviewer 2: I suppose you could still game the system by phrasing resolutions in the negative sense.
E.g. consider a resolution like "That the Foo project should *not* be accepted into HPSF".
If nobody votes, the default result is "Against", and the Foo project is accepted into HPSF.

Perhaps there should be three possible poll outcomes then: "Approve", "Against", and "Expired/Inconclusive".
That could avoid double negative games.

> Vote majorities will be calculated as a percentage of the votes received. If a project

Reviewer 6: > I disagree -- this proposal effectively makes not voting into a vote against, where I think not voting should count like an abstention (but an abstention counts towards quorum and a non-vote does not -- we could fail to achieve quorum on a virtual vote as well).

I guess agree to disagree on this. We count votes until the decision is met regardless of the rest of the vote (which would work better without the "abstain" option). Otherwise, the vote continues until those non-votes become approve or reject. They don't count as a vote against, they just hold up the decision.

I suppose you could say that if the clock runs out, then a non-vote is effectively a vote against. But that is a totally logical thing to do. I don't want projects accepted just because the TAC couldn't be bothered to vote.

> Vote majorities will be calculated as a percentage of the votes received. If a project

Author: Per our discussion at the TAC meeting ([recording and transcript here](https://zoom.us/rec/play/rpRMaS56hwGK_1A9jLSqI9gboRUcEaKM0FepV8ae9G9VpC54b_oGfeMltHaUZHb-gTEuRMlXylkhVRZq.hbOqT4OBav2MV-W6?eagerLoadZvaPages=sidemenu.billing.plan_management&accessLevel=meeting&canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMode=true&componentName=rec-play&originRequestUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Frec%2Fshare%2FNPx2XLIZ84S_UlsTh1KP_OqcZFnphujrXi8GasYnru43U-Xzx_hkxRRk88ns7OLV.9-llwNfKZYwJYUO3), I *believe* we agreed to adhere to Robert's rules (which are well established) and to allow abstentions.

I tried to update the process to make this very clear -- I added part of Robert's rules to the process.

@kmorel @jlapolla-cray @becker33 does this look ok to you?
